[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: Throughout
the history of the world,
adepts have attempted to find
the seat of the human soul.
One key symbol, if
we go back far enough
into Egyptology and perhaps
beyond, is the pine cone.
The pine cone represents
the pineal gland.
And what is the pineal
gland credited with?
We're speaking with Rabbi Joel
Bakst today, a Jewish scholar,
regarding his belief
that the Torah is
the gateway to
understanding the pineal
and our connection
with divine source.
Welcome.
>>JOEL BAKST: Thank you, Regina.
>>REGINA: This
will be interesting
because we really haven't done
any shows on the Kabbalah.
And so you're going
to be explaining
some things most of
us have not been--
unless you're a Jewish scholar--
have been exposed to before.
So this is going
to be fun for us.
>>BAKST: Yes, I
expect there will
be lots of aha experiences.
>>REGINA: So you found
what you consider
to be the key to consciousness
within your studies
throughout your lifetime
and the consciousness
and the communication
pathways with God.
Can you explain that just
a little bit, just kind of
set up the context for the
rest of the conversation?
>>BAKST: I began my
spiritual journey
when I was around
17 or 18 years old.
I'm a total product of the
'60s from Southern California.
And I was exposed to everything
that was going on back then,
from psychedelics to Eastern
influence, yoga, Kundalini.
And it woke up my soul.
I then went to visit the
land of Israel ostensibly
to study the Kabbalah,
not really even knowing
what it was at the time.
And forgetting one
little technicality,
and that is that back
then hardly anything
was available in
English, and I was not
speaking Hebrew at the time.
And I then enrolled
in a yeshiva,
which is a rabbinical
seminary, and they did not
offer Kabbalah.
They offered Talmud,
Halakhah, that's Jewish law,
and the Musar,
the Jewish ethics.
And I was told again
and again that you
have to first build
your foundation
with the traditional tools
of the Jewish religion
before you begin the Kabbalah.
>>REGINA: Which was interesting.
You were atheist at
this point still, right?
>>BAKST: I was an atheist
regarding any established
religion.
>>REGINA: Right, right.
>>BAKST: If I'm on
a spiritual search--
>>REGINA: Any kind of
the classic-- yeah.
>>BAKST: Yes, totally, totally.
I mean, back earlier
in what amounted
to like religious
Hebrew school, I
was known as the class atheist.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
That's why I brought it up.
>>BAKST: Yes.
>>REGINA: So now you happened to
kind of dive into the deep end
pretty quickly.
>>BAKST: Yeah.
So I spent a good 12 years,
day and night, six days a week.
There's no two-day
weekend in Israel.
And I mastered Hebrew
and Aramaic and Talmud
and Jewish law, as I mentioned.
And then I slowly began to
study the Kabbalah with teachers
and from books and colleagues.
And as I developed
those tools, it
enabled me actually to go
in the direction consciously
where I began-- when I woke
up at 17, 18 years old.
I actually found a
book of Hatha yoga
that my mother had in
the house, and that's
what started the whole thing.
>>REGINA: Like Jessie Stearn,
"Yoga, Life, and Reincarnation"
>>BAKST: Yes, yes.
>>REGINA: I know that got a
whole generation of people
on the path.
It was a good guess.
>>BAKST: And so my studies
led me to a deep investigation
for learning the
fundamentals of the Kabbalah.
And let me just explain
about the term "Kabbalah."
It means as much as the
word "science" means.
One man's science is
another man's witchcraft.
There are so many
fields of science.
Likewise, Kabbalah
is not a thing.
It's not one thing at all.
There are many different fields.
As many fields as there
are in modern science,
believe it or not, there
are in the Kabbalah.
>>REGINA: Well, this
is my next question.
I want to get into definitions,
because for non-Jewish viewers,
we don't have really much of an
idea what a lot of this means.
>>BAKST: Let me tell
you a little secret.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>BAKST: For most
Jewish viewers also.
>>REGINA: You don't either.
[LAUGHTER]
Well, it's interesting because
I think in the Western world,
most non-Jews heard the word
"Kabbalah" or "Kabbalah"
the first time
because of Madonna.
>>BAKST: Exactly.
>>REGINA: I mean, really.
>>BAKST: It's out.
OK?
>>REGINA: Madonna
brought it forward.
>>BAKST: The cat
is out of the bag.
But the question is--
>>REGINA: What is it?
>>BAKST: --what is the cat?
>>REGINA: OK.
So what I'd like to do, if
you don't mind at this point,
you can give us a little bit
of a religious lesson here--
>>BAKST: Sure.
>>REGINA: --and leading
up to the Kabbalah.
And that is telling us the
difference between the Talmud,
the Torah, and ultimately,
what is the Kabbalah?
You just explained a little bit.
It's like the word "science."
But let's have some history
so we know what we're not
talking about and what we are.
>>BAKST: Yes.
The word "Torah"
means "teachings."
It means education.
It means transmission.
And the Torah essentially
has three different meanings.
It's most specific
meaning, it refers
to the Five Books of Moses known
as the Pentateuch-- Genesis
through Deuteronomy.
And that's the main
meaning of the Torah.
Then, by extension, Torah also
refers to all the other books
of what in the
Christian Western world
they call the Old Testament.
>>REGINA: That's what
I was going to ask.
>>BAKST: OK?
And Judaism consists
of 24 books.
And they include the Prophets
and the other books like Psalms
and Proverbs, the
Book of Daniel,
and the Book of Chronicles.
OK?
So that's also
Torah, by extension--
refers to all of those three
books, which together are 24.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>BAKST: Then, and
most importantly,
the term "Torah," by
further extension,
refers to the very
vast oral tradition.
There's an oral Torah along
with the written Torah.
Now, why must this be so?
Let's take a look
at the Godhead.
OK?
Everyone's aware of
this concept that man
is made in the image of God.
OK?
Well, we know now,
in the last 40 years,
we really have two brains and
two hemispheres in our brain,
and they process information
in two very different ways.
We have the left brain that's
essentially analytical, linear,
binary.
Whereas the right brain
is unitive, circular.
Likewise--
>>REGINA: Credited with
being the more creative part.
>>BAKST: Yes.
But really, we would want to say
there's two modes of creativity
in here.
>>REGINA: Yes.
I mean, one certainly
influences the other.
>>BAKST: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>BAKST: And this is precisely
why there are two Torahs.
>>REGINA: Two Torahs.
OK.
>>BAKST: Two Torahs.
Who ever heard of that?
>>REGINA: That's the first
I ever heard of two Torahs.
>>BAKST: I know.
>>REGINA: OK.
So what's the other Torah?
>>BAKST: OK.
>>REGINA: There's
the oral and there's
the one that's kind of the
Old Testament and more.
>>BAKST: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Then there's the oral.
>>BAKST: And that's called
the written and the oral.
Because we're made
in the image of God,
which means when the Godhead,
as much as we can try to express
that, which we cannot,
OK, iterates itself,
makes copies of itself, it makes
the human being in its image.
We precisely have two modes
of information processing
because the divine mind has
two modes of processing.
And we're just replicating that.
Therefore, Torah is considered
to be the mind of God,
the thoughts of God.
If God, the Godhead,
has two hemispheres,
two modes of processing,
therefore the Torah,
by definition, must
have two modes as well.
They are the written and
the oral, the written
corresponding, in general,
to the left hemisphere.
OK?
As it processes, it's linear.
The written Torah is just the
letters that are written down,
which are black ink
upon white parchment.
OK?
In the original
scroll of the Torah,
there's no vowels written.
That's all part of
the oral Torah that's
superimposed upon the written.
It's just like a binary
computer printout.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>BAKST: The right
hemisphere is the oral Torah.
And the oral Torah, just like
with our two hemispheres,
they work independent.
But there are united
via the corpus callosum,
a network of several
hundred nerves, wires,
that connect the two.
OK?
True Torah learning cannot be
without both of the hemispheres
working together simultaneously.
And therefore in traditional
Torah, it's silly at best,
it's absurd and even
tragic at worst,
that anyone would think they
can open up the written Torah,
known in the world
as the Old Testament,
and read it and expect to truly
understand what it's saying.
>>REGINA: OK.
So that brings up a
rash of questions.
One of them is, then have the
two been combined into written
form so that a novice
can pick up and begin
integrating the oral and
the written, so to speak,
in the written language?
I mean, like vowels-- replete
with vowels and things.
>>BAKST: Precisely.
So now enter Talmud.
>>REGINA: OK.
All right.
>>BAKST: Talmud, in
general, is the summation
of the oral Torah,
originally the oral Torah.
Everyone thinks that when
Moses was on Mount Sinai,
he got the Ten Commandments.
It was so much,
much more than that.
Remember, he was up there
for 40 days, 40 nights.
What was he doing?
OK?
He was receiving the oral Torah.
He was being taught by
the divine mind itself.
Now, originally,
it was forbidden
to write down the oral
Torah because part
of the idea of
oral is that-- it's
like if we took a snapshot of
this right here going on right
now and that's all you knew.
You can show that
to 1,000 people
and get 1,000
interpretations of that.
OK?
So it had to remain oral,
live, like a running video.
However, beginning in the second
century after the Common Era,
due to the persecutions, the
exile, the whole breakdown
of the transmission system
from master to disciple,
it was then divine permission
was given to write down
parts of the oral Torah.
So yes, Regina, the oral
Torah now is all written down.
>>REGINA: OK.
So now I have two questions.
Let's go back to Moses.
Now, if Moses was historically
part of an Egyptian lineage,
it makes sense he wouldn't
be writing this down
in Hebrew, right?
I mean, according
to some history,
he was part of a royal
Egyptian family who
then came into being as
a representative and one
who was bringing information
in for the new clan, the Hebrew
clan.
And so I always
wondered, how does
that transmission
occur that ultimately
came to be in Hebrew?
There had to be a
way of transmitting
via kind of very pure
thoughts and concepts,
so to speak, in order
for him to even integrate
that enough to be able to share
it and pass this knowledge on,
right?
>>BAKST: Yes.
>>REGINA: Because there's a
language barrier of sorts.
>>BAKST: So whatever
Moses received
from his Egyptian
heritage, that was greatly
augmented by what
he then received
through the direct transmission
on Mount Sinai, which
not only included the written
Torah, the Five Books of Moses
but also this very,
very vast oral Torah.
That is everything that's
written in between the lines.
It qualifies everything.
It's really absurd to think
that we can read-- take
a look at the written Torah.
There are things
in there that are
mentioned in one brief passing.
It doesn't really mean
anything in and of itself
until we bring in all
the vast information
from the oral tradition
of what that--
>>REGINA: That's
what I'm saying.
>>BAKST: --intended to mean.
>>REGINA: And so
if he's receiving
a divine, pure transmission,
it goes beyond language anyway.
>>BAKST: Yes.
>>REGINA: You're being
downloaded with direct concepts
and understandings that can then
be translated down the road.
But as you say, over the
next however many years,
the translation started
becoming corrupted,
which happens as you pass
stories down from generation
to generation, right?
>>BAKST: No.
I didn't say it
became corrupted.
OK?
To the contrary, the
Torah, the oral Torah,
has a built-in system
that's self-correcting.
>>REGINA: Well, what
does that tell us?
>>BAKST: Well, it's
a whole methodology.
This is what's very
little known in the world.
Torah, in this sense,
is not a religion
based upon feelings and ideas
and speculations and theories.
It's really a hard science.
And it comes with an
extensive methodology
of how-- when we open up
the written Torah-- how
do we now decipher?
It's all code.
That's a computer code.
And in truth, even though
it says "In the beginning,
God created--" the truth is
what is being revealed there
on the surface is nothing
more than-- remember
in "2001 Space Odyssey," the
monkey men, the black obelisk?
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>BAKST: They could touch it.
They didn't have a
clue what it was.
It is not an exaggeration.
>>REGINA: So you're saying it's
like a binary code literally.
>>BAKST: Yeah.
And the methodology
is very specific.
There are rules,
just like in science.
And everything has to be--
it's like an experiment.
You do an experiment.
Your colleague has to be able to
replicate exactly what you did
and come to the
same conclusions.
Furthermore, everything is
open to peer group critique.
And that's always been
the way of the Torah.
In fact, the Talmud
specifically,
which is an ongoing live
discussion of everything that's
written in the binary code,
of how to understand it
and how to apply that.
And that code is essentially--
the whole methodology
is what can only be learned
from a teacher who learned it
from his teacher,
from his master.
Even though it's written
down, here's the thing,
someone could pick
up-- and the Talmud
has been translated
into English.
>>REGINA: Right.
I'm going to get into
that in a second--
>>BAKST: But anyone--
>>REGINA: But go ahead.
>>BAKST: --who
opens it up is going
to be lost immediately because
it requires apprenticeship.
It requires years and
decades of studying--
>>REGINA: To be able to read--
>>BAKST: --by a master--
>>REGINA: --the layers
under the layers.
>>BAKST: Yes.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>BAKST: And even to
start with, the Torah
does not talk on one level.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BAKST: It's well-known
the Torah has four levels--
dimensions of exploration.
And I'm purposely not using
the word "interpretation."
>>REGINA: Exploration.
>>BAKST: OK?
>>REGINA: OK.
>>BAKST: If you have
scientific fact,
you're not making
an interpretation.
That is the fact.
Those are the facts of physics.
And so when the Talmudic mind,
when the Talmudists-- now,
every Talmudist in the ancient
times, not so long ago,
was also a Kabbalist.
And in fact, and this
is not very well-known,
about a quarter to a third of
the whole Talmud is Kabbalah.
But it is so well-concealed.
It's hidden in stories.
It's hidden in aphorisms.
It's hidden in things
that look like legends
of the Jews, things that
look like fairy tales.
The masters were so clever.
OK?
They're masters of cryptology.
And so if you have
something that's
so precious, so
profound, something
that's coming from
another dimension,
and you have to transmit it.
But you have to be very
careful to protect it
and not to allow those that
are not fitting to access it
or that would abuse it--
>>REGINA: Denigrate
it in some way.
>>BAKST: --and
denigrate it like that.
So you have to be able to
teach it, pass it down in a way
that the information
is there, but it's not
readily observable, knowable,
to anyone from the outside
until you know the code
of how to break it.
>>REGINA: OK.
That makes sense.
And so now there are,
certainly in recent times
and, again, like
what Madonna did
for bringing the Kabbalah
to our awareness,
you might say Dan
Brown did with a lot
of the mystical Christian
teachings, so to speak.
And again, this notion of
scholars throughout the past
being involved in the
reinterpretation--
in this case, a
reinterpretation.
So you're saying that
even just looking
at something like
the King James Bible,
for example, and the
interpretations that took place
during that period of time
with the Christian texts, which
were primarily-- I mean,
my understanding-- as more
politically motivated.
There are certain parts that no
longer exist in the Christian
Bible.
You're saying that in
the Talmud, in the Torah,
this is not the case.
There haven't been severe edits,
edits for political expediency
and such throughout history.
It stayed in a pure
state this whole time?
>>BAKST: That is correct.
In fact, even if there was a
dispute, an argument about any
of the thousands of
matters, the minority view
is always kept alive.
It may not be the one that's
most applicable at any given
time and place.
But the minority view
is never discarded,
and it is given as much
validity as the majority view--
>>REGINA: That's good.
>>BAKST: --because if the proper
methodology is applied, then
it is also reflecting
the spiritual truth.
The whole Torah is
higher dimensionality
that is now being manifest
into our lower dimension.
Very difficult thing to do.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>BAKST: It's like
literally trying
to get an elephant through
the eye of a needle.
So when we come
into this dimension,
we have to go right or left.
We have to make choices here.
We're in a higher dimension.
Both aspects can co-exist
and do exist simultaneously.
And no problem.
>>REGINA: Yes.
We have more duality
in this level.
>>BAKST: But this
is the beauty of it.
Nothing is ever rejected.
You have to know how
to play the game.
It's a master game.
Once you learn the
techniques, you can join it.
And in fact, it's
a master game that
goes on throughout
the generations
and never really even stopped,
even though the basic parts had
been written down.
It is the original internet
that spans across millennia.
It's really quite astounding.
And the Talmud covers
literally every single subject
that we could possibly imagine.
It's not just Jewish law.
It's philosophy, theology.
It's psychology.
It's sexuality.
It's sociology.
It deals with everyday
life issues and problems.
It deals with issues between
men and women and parents
and children.
It's all in there.
But if one develops and
has the eyes to see,
this is all echoing higher
dimensionality, how it now
manifests into our everyday
existence which then enables
us to reunite our lower
dimensionality back
in with the higher
dimensionality.
And in fact, even
the Torah that we
have now-- the
written Torah, as it
was revealed at Mount
Sinai-- in itself
is a lower dimensional replica
of a higher-dimensional Torah,
which, as I said earlier,
is really the mind of God.
It's God's own consciousness
that he is projecting
into this lower dimension.
The assumption here is that this
lower dimension was actually
part of the higher dimension.
Something fell out.
That's the famous--
>>REGINA: That story
goes throughout all
of the world's traditions.
>>BAKST: Yes, yes.
But basically, we're all trying
to get back to the garden.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BAKST: OK?
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>BAKST: And that
we're trying to find
our roots, our individual and
collective roots, in what's
referred to in the common
law as the higher dimensional
body of Adam, the original
Adam, who was-- very important,
the term "Adam" is androgynous.
That's male and female.
Every human being is
like a cell in that body.
Every animal is part of that
body in every vegetable, plant,
and mineral.
The Jewish vision from
the very beginning,
from the get go, before there
was any idea of global unity
and we're all one family-- OK,
we're talking about thousands
of years ago.
And if you read the words of
the prophets, it's very evident.
All reality, our
humanity, is viewed
as a single Adamic-like form.
We're all cells in that body.
And the whole purpose,
the modus operandi
of this very existence, is
to bring all the parts back
into the whole,
and then the whole
is greater than the sum
of the individual parts.
And then we have what is
known as the Messianic Era.
The Messianic Era, which
is very, very fundamental,
is it's not mythology,
and it is not legends.
This is really what we're
all aspiring towards.
This is when we
become, once again,
this single consciousness slash
reality going back to-- we're
coming full circle
back to where we began.
So Talmud is the oral Torah.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>BAKST: The written Torah would
be like the left brain of God.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>BAKST: The Talmud would be
like the right brain of God.
>>REGINA: OK, great.
>>BAKST: And the
corpus callosum?
>>REGINA: Yes?
>>BAKST: When I learned
Torah, I become, in effect,
the cosmic corpus callosum.
I am bridging.
I am uniting together the
cosmic left and right brains,
the written Torah with the oral
Torah, and this creates unity.
This creates a profound harmony,
and this is called tikkun.
"Tikkun" is perhaps
the most important word
in the Jewish tradition.
It means rectification, fixing.
The whole purpose is
to fix, to mend that
which has been torn asunder.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now let's start weaving
in, as the overlay,
I suppose, or maybe the
underpinnings, the Kabbalah.
>>BAKST: OK.
So what does the
word "Kabbalah" mean?
Kabbalah simply
means that which has
been received, orally from
teacher all the way going back
to Moses.
And let me just emphasize
also, my tradition
goes back not just to
Moses on Mount Sinai,
but back to Abraham, Isaac, and
Jacob and to the matriarchs,
and even further back to
great-great-grandfather
Enoch, the seventh
generation from Adam.
And as astounding
as it may sound,
I'm able to trace my
tradition and my teachings
back to Adam, to
the original Adam.
So Kabbalah means that
which has been received.
And originally, the entire
oral Torah was called Kabbalah.
That's not very well-known.
There was the
written, and there was
that which was the
Kabbalah received orally.
As I mentioned, beginning
around the second century,
due to various sociological,
historical factors,
it started to be written down.
The last part of the oral
tradition to be written down
was what we now
call the Kabbalah.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now, this is where the science
is woven in as well, not just
the rules or laws that help
govern society and philosophy
and so forth.
But now we're talking
numbers, geometry,
all of these other
aspects of code, right?
>>BAKST: Yes, yes.
The Kabbalah, as I mentioned
earlier, is so vast.
It is not an exaggeration to say
it's like the word "science,"
which could mean so
many different things
to different people.
OK?
So the Kabbalah is
the oral tradition.
But specifically, it
is the esoteric aspect
of the oral tradition.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>BAKST: Here's another
way to understand it.
The written Torah is the body.
The oral Torah is the soul.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>BAKST: OK?
There's a soul to the soul.
That's the Kabbalah.
What is now known
in the world-- we
said the cat's out of the bag.
There's so many species of cats.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>BAKST: There's domesticated
cats, and there's wild cats.
And they're still finding new
species of feline creatures.
So the term "Kabbalah"
almost doesn't mean anything
because it can mean
so many things.
It is, in general,
the inner soul.
Look, we're all
spiritually-based people here,
anyone who's listening,
and we have to assume that.
We know we have a body.
We know we have a soul.
And Torah is no different.
It has the external aspect,
and it has the internal aspect.
They are not separate.
In fact, they fit
together isomorphically,
like a hand inside of a glove.
When one learns Torah,
it is a process.
It's not academic learning.
You are actually
becoming a partner
with the divine mind itself.
As I mentioned, I
become, in effect,
this cosmic corpus
callosum bridging together
the left side of creation with
the right side of creation.
This is, in general, what
the Kabbalah is doing.
It's simply adding
to the unification
from the left side
and the right side.
Because the more
that we understand
about the soul,
strangely enough,
the more we have the capacity
to understand about the body
and how it functions, which
is still so much of a mystery.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And we're going to get into
one of those primary seats
eventually--
>>BAKST: Yes, yes, yes.
>>REGINA: --in a little bit.
But I wonder this.
As you were talking about the
oral Torah, the written Torah,
the Talmud, and then
the Kabbalah overlay,
is this true in other of the
world's ancient traditions
as well, where you
have an oral and you
have a written and similar
cosmic principles flowing
through?
>>BAKST: Regina, I'll
answer you this way.
There very may well have been.
But today--
>>REGINA: But it's not-- yeah.
>>BAKST: --where are the
living oral traditions
that can be legitimately
traced back?
This is what I learned
from my teacher.
Someone could say I studied
from my teacher for 10, 20,
30 years.
He studied from his.
We know who that person is.
And then we can trace
it all the way back.
OK?
Is anyone from any
religion, mystical group,
society can come
forward and say, here,
I have an ancient
tradition together
with a written tradition.
Now, together with
this, the problem
is compounded because
there's many traditions that
have no written tradition.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BAKST: It's only oral.
>>BAKST: And then
we have fragments
of written traditions, but
there's no oral tradition
to go with it.
That's been lost.
So it's almost moot.
OK.
Code of Hammurabi, where you
got this epic of Gilgamesh
or whatever.
>>REGINA: Gilgamesh, yeah.
>>BAKST: We are the monkey
men with the black obelisk
in "2001, A Space Odyssey."
And everyone comes in with this
speculation and this theory
and so forth.
That's not science.
And "mysticism"-- well,
I don't use that word.
I try to avoid that word as much
as possible because, in fact,
as shocking as it
may sound, there
is no such thing as
Jewish mysticism.
Kabbalah is not
Jewish mysticism,
not if we're going to approach
it from any religious--
>>REGINA: It's science.
>>BAKST: --theological
perspective
where you have-- Here's
a religion, say, Islam,
basic fundamental this and that.
And then you got Sufism,
which is the mystical branch.
Likewise in Christianity,
you got the mystical branch,
but for all practical
purposes, very separate.
And the proof is
that the mainstream
of Christianity and/or of
Islam, just for examples, they
were often very antagonistic
towards the mystical strain.
>>REGINA: Or knew nothing of.
>>BAKST: Or knew nothing
of and totally rejected.
Not so in the Kabbalah.
Virtually every single rabbi,
up to relatively recent,
if he was a Talmudist,
he was a Kabbalist.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>BAKST: He was a
biblical scholar.
He was an ethicist.
You had to be all these things,
or you couldn't be in the club.
And so if there seems to be such
a-- there's been a breakdown.
We've lost all those
oral traditions.
Kabbalah, as the name implies,
is first and foremost part
of an unbroken
chain of tradition.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>BAKST: Now, keep in mind
that a lot of the tradition
was written down.
It was encrypted.
And it's something that
might look like a fairy tale.
If you know the
code, it's astounding
what they were able
to encrypt in to what
appears to be on the surface.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now we're going to
make a really big leap.
>>BAKST: Going to make a
big leap to a little organ.
>>REGINA: Yes, we are.
And thank you for laying
the background down for us.
So I have a greater
understanding now
as a result of what you said.
So let's go to this
one little puzzle.
I wrote here that it started
falling into place for you
with your understanding
of the Foundation Stone.
So once we talk about
the Foundation Stone,
then I want to leap
to the pineal, DMT,
and the rest of the story.
>>BAKST: Sure.
There is in the land of Israel
in the city of Jerusalem
on what's known as the Temple
Mount, where King Solomon's
Temple stood for
410 years and then
where the temple known as
Herod's Temple, destroyed
in the year 70.
After the Common Era,
it stood for 420 years.
What's this whole
temple thing all about?
The temple was all
for a large room that
was called the Holy of Holies.
What was the Holy
of Holies about?
It all sat on top of what's
known as the Foundation Stone.
In Hebrew, it's
"Even ha-Shetiyah."
That space, that rock,
that outcrop of rock
is where Abraham
bound his son Isaac,
the famous binding of Isaac.
That is where that took place.
That is also where, a
generation later, Jacob
had his most famous dream of
the ladder connecting heaven
and earth and these
angelic entities ascending
and descending upon.
That took place on
the Foundation Stone.
That's where he laid
his head down, literally
on the Foundation Stone.
The Foundation
Stone, its tradition
goes back even further.
And essentially, as much as we
can try to express that which
we cannot, this was the
inception point of creation
itself.
This is all taking place
within the Godhead.
>>REGINA: Wait.
So what is the evidence
it's the inception place?
>>BAKST: That's the
tradition that's handed down.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>BAKST: And that's why
specifically Abraham
went to that spot.
That is why Jacob
went specifically--
>>REGINA: OK, because
it was in the tradition?
>>BAKST: --because they
knew of this tradition, yes.
And then many, many
centuries later, King David
purchased that area.
It was owned by a
Jevosite, and King David
purchased it from him.
It was formerly a
threshing floor.
And he laid out all the
architectural blueprints
for the temple, which
was then constructed
by his son King Solomon
specifically on that spot.
There's just a host
of what appears
to be legends and
fantastical descriptions
of the significance
of this spot.
Now, that rock, as I said,
the Foundation Stone,
during the period
of the first temple,
that is where the Ark of
the Covenant was placed.
The Ark of the Covenant--
everybody knows it from
"Indiana Jones"--
is a golden box,
and it has these two cherubic
creatures that are standing
on top of it.
And it's very
relevant to know when
we start talking
about the pineal gland
that these two angelic
entities were male and female.
Did you know that?
>>REGINA: I read that, yes.
>>BAKST: OK.
>>REGINA: What's inside the box?
That's what people want to know.
>>BAKST: Oh.
Well, inside the box was
the set of the original Ten
Commandments, essentially.
That's what it was.
>>REGINA: I'm only asking
because Laurence Gardner
and a lot of other
work that's come up
have thought that there were
other elements inside there,
such as ormus the transformative
white gold, so to speak.
>>BAKST: Yeah.
My approach to these
speculations and theories is
that if anyone really
knew the Kabbalah,
and we're talking about profuse
mathematical formulas behind
the Ark of the Covenant and
what all these things are truly
representing, and that, in
fact, it is a vortex-- that is,
the point singularity connecting
this dimensionality with higher
dimensionality-- one
wouldn't need to even--
>>REGINA: Speculate.
>>BAKST: --come up,
speculate, because there's
so much going on there
without that to begin with.
>>REGINA: So let's talk about
the profundity of the Ark now
and what it is being--
>>BAKST: OK.
>>REGINA: --as a portal.
>>BAKST: The most profound thing
we need to know about the Ark
is the Foundation Stone
because the Ark, in effect,
simply acted as an amplifier for
the essence of the Foundation
Stone.
Between those two
cherubim, there
was a vortex that opened up.
When the prophets would enter
into a state of prophecy,
they did so by projecting
their consciousness
in between the two cherubim.
>>REGINA: Two cherubim.
>>BAKST: Before the
time of the temple,
it was called the Tabernacle.
And it was a mobile temple,
and in the desert with Moses
and the children of Israel.
And the divine voice
from the higher dimension
literally spoke to
Moses, communicated
through that
vortex-- a stargate,
a virtual Star of
David stargate.
And so it was
literally the portal
that is the way back into
the higher dimension.
But the truth is, the
Ark of the Covenant
has its ability on its own.
And due to the holographic
principle of reality,
there is an element to
the Foundation Stone
everywhere in the world.
Now we can understand
why there's
this holy rock over here.
There's this holy
mountain over here.
It's all true.
>>REGINA: Well, and it said
there are a number of stargates
on the planet.
>>BAKST: Yes.
But when you now take the
Ark of the Covenant and place
it on top of the
Foundation Stone here--
>>REGINA: This
highly-activated area, yes.
>>BAKST: OK.
And indicative of
this, that this
is kind of like a meta-stargate
that sends out meridians
to all the other stargates,
but that they all
cross-section in this stargate.
Historically-- if
you were a Martian,
and you were coming
to planet Earth
and looked at all
of the history,
the biggest question
you would have would be,
what is unique about this spot?
This spot, where the temple
stood, where Jerusalem was,
has been conquered
and reconquered
by more nations than any
other piece of geography
on this planet.
We, as spiritual
investigators, must ask why?
What is going on here?
If we were to see-- like they
show you on maps of airlines,
and you see all
the crisscrossing.
And you see there's
a heck of a lot
more going out through
New York and LA
than there is through
Boulder, Colorado.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BAKST: OK?
And so by the same
token, if we were
to take a picture, time
lapse of the planet Earth,
it's indisputable.
There's something going
on there because there's
more activity
there than there is
any other place in the world.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
It's said in other
terminology that there's
an incredible
confluence of ley lines
that are creating this
incredible geodetic
experience--
>>BAKST: Yes.
>>REGINA: --and energy--
>>BAKST: Yes, yes, yes.
>>REGINA: --off-putting,
so to speak.
>>BAKST: And with
this, we can appreciate
what King Solomon was doing.
It says he was the wisest of
all men-- science, spirituality,
everything.
He knew the meridian system.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>BAKST: And he was attempting
to reconnect all the veins
and arteries of the entire
planet-- all the wisdoms
from the West, which back then
was of the Egyptian knowledge,
the basis of all Western
occult, which then was morphed
into Greek wisdom, which is
the basis of Western science.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>BAKST: And all the
Eastern wisdom as well.
OK?
He was taking-- in
fact, it's very relevant
to take this model of
split-brain hemisphericity
and superimpose it
upon the planet Earth.
And it's like, oh my gosh.
The Western world, the
Occident, is the left brain.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BAKST: The Orient
is the right brain.
And Israel, Jerusalem,
the Foundation Stone
is in the middle,
and it's no accident.
It's betwixt the
Occident and the Orient.
It's no accident.
And so this is
just a little idea
of what this Foundation
Stone is about.
Now--
>>REGINA: OK.
>>BAKST: --what does that got
to do with the pineal gland?
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>BAKST: OK.
>>REGINA: And then you got
to throw DMT in there too.
>>BAKST: Oh,
absolutely, absolutely.
I was aware of these traditions.
There's a whole other
layer to place upon this,
and it's known as
the luz bone, L-U-Z.
>>REGINA: L-U-Z.
>>BAKST: L-U-Z, which
interesting enough--
and its Romance roots means
light, like in Spanish.
In Hebrew, luz is
a hazelnut tree.
And there's a very strange
story in the Book of Judges.
And it says that
the tribe of Joseph,
they were entering-- conquering
the land from certain Canaanite
tribes, and they came
to a city called Luz.
And it says that it was
so fortified and hidden,
there was no entrance.
It had a secret entrance to get
in, and they couldn't find it.
And they waited for one man to
come out who then showed them
the secret entrance, and it was
hidden behind a giant hazelnut
tree.
And it led into a cave,
led into a tunnel that
went into this city.
And it says that they let that
man go with all his family.
It says he went off to the
East, and he built a new city.
He also called it
by the name of Luz.
Just as a quick little
sidebar, and this
is one of the few places
where I speculate.
There may be a loose
Luz connection to Lhasa.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>BAKST: Luza.
>>BAKST: OK?
Which we know is a very, very
ancient, very mystical city.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>BAKST: Well, this city
of Luz, both the original
and the second one,
have all these,
for lack of a better term,
mystical associations with it.
No one died in the city.
You lived forever.
If you wanted to die, you had
to go outside of the city.
OK?
You could only speak truth.
>>REGINA: So your
website, City of Luz.
>>BAKST: Yes.
>>REGINA: OK.
So there was something that was
being practiced or understood
or consumed or whatnot there?
>>BAKST: Yes.
But what's important
and relevant
is that the city of Luz
that's being described there,
when this was written down,
it was all in encoded because,
in fact, all those descriptions
there are describing
the Foundation Stone, the
place where Jacob had his dream
and where Abraham and Isaac
were and the two temples were.
In fact, there is, in
effect, a secret entrance.
OK?
Now, I knew all
this information.
So some years ago, I encountered
Dr. Rick Strassman's book.
I began reading it, and
I was just mind-boggled.
I totally understood everything
he was saying from a Torah
perspective.
He was describing, now from
a physiological/medical
perspective, everything
associated with the Foundation
Stone in this
mysterious city of Luz.
And based upon all my
research and my conclusions,
the pineal gland is known
in Torah literature,
both in the written Torah
and in the oral Torah.
Because it says there,
most importantly,
when Jacob awoke
from his dream, says
he took a rock, the Foundation,
he set it upright as a pillar.
He poured oil on it.
He gave it a new name.
He said, this little
town now, this section,
is called Beit El,
Bethel, House of God.
But the verse says, however,
its original name was Luz.
What I gained from Strassman's
research was the model
to understand-- making a long
never-ending story very, very
short-- as the pineal
gland is to the human body,
the Foundation Stone is
to the global human body.
All reality-- we know this, as
below, so above, as without,
so within.
The whole temple is actually,
King Solomon's Temple,
was a replication on
a macrocosmic level
of the human body and
the parts of the brain.
And the Foundation Stone
corresponds exactly
to where the pineal gland would
be located in the human brain.
And what really hit me was this.
I had heard of the pineal
gland due to my understanding
of some Eastern concepts and
Kundalini yoga, the chakras,
and so forth.
But with this new
research that came out,
which is essentially--
if your listeners are not
familiar with it, that
the hypothesis is--
it's not proven yet-- but
there's very, very strong
circumstantial evidence in that
the whole body, different cells
in the body, are able to
produce this endogenous
neurotransmitter or hormone
called dimethyltryptamine.
>>REGINA: Right.
DMT.
>>BAKST: DMT.
OK?
And Rick's hypothesis,
together with others,
is that the pineal gland
is able to produce,
under certain conditions,
a surge of DMT.
And that it is
this-- endogenous,
meaning it's produced
in the human body--
is able to act as the medium
that now interconnects
interfaces-- my humanity
with my higher-dimensional
spirituality.
It acts as the living
physiological vortex.
And thus Rick coined this
term, which is gorgeous,
the "spirit molecule."
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>BAKST: Spirit from
above, molecule from below.
>>REGINA: Joel, let me ask
you a couple questions here.
One thing that when
I was researching
and I found interesting
was that in Hebrew there
is the word "peniel"
rather than "pineal,"
but still only one letter
apart, meaning "Face of God."
Now, how does that interface--?
>>BAKST: Yes.
You took the words
out of my mouth.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>BAKST: You took the DMT
out of my pineal gland.
>>REGINA: OK.
So let's--
>>BAKST: OK.
So here, and this is the
thing that really struck me.
The pineal gland,
we know, as you
mentioned in your
introduction, it
was coined about 300 years ago
based upon the word "pine cone"
because it's pine cone-like.
It's very, very small--
size of a grain of rice.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BAKST: And the term in
Hebrew, "peniel" or "pineal,"
both are correct pronunciations,
literally means "Face of God."
One of the other names,
the appellations,
for the Foundation
Stone, is peniel.
>>REGINA: OK.
So now we're starting to see
kind of the cross-section--
>>BAKST: Yes.
>>REGINA: --the blending
of the two, as you
spoke about a moment ago.
So let's talk a little
bit more about it.
First of all, have
you taken DMT?
>>BAKST: No.
>>REGINA: You haven't.
OK.
>>BAKST: And I want to emphasize
that all my research and all
my conclusions are based
upon the assumption
that the pineal gland
produces endogenous DMT.
And that can be generated
through one's own consciousness
through meditative
practices, which
I have taken bits and
pieces here and there
from the Kabbalah
tradition, which, again,
is based on the written Torah.
And I have
reconstructed a whole,
in effect, how to turn your
brain into a laboratory
to produce your
own endogenous DMT.
And this is how it's
done, very, very simply.
It's done through
resonance, harmonics.
Once we can accept the premise,
just as a working model, that
as my pineal gland
is to my body,
this strange,
mysterious location
called the Foundation Stone
is to all of humanity.
So if I get my pineal,
say, vibrating,
and I direct my consciousness
to the place where
the Holy of Holies stood,
which is now currently
under the golden Dome
of the Rock-- rock?
Which rock?
That is the Foundation Stone,
but no one thinks about it.
Why did they build that there?
>>REGINA: It's a massive
contention on the planet, yes.
>>BAKST: Which brings the
point home even more so.
Why is there so much contention?
Just as a sidebar, the
whole Israeli, Arab,
Palestinian disputes,
everything, it comes down to--
>>REGINA: Everyone
wants that spot.
>>BAKST: --who has the
ownership of that spot?
Exactly.
>>REGINA: Everyone
wants the spot.
>>BAKST: Exactly.
>>REGINA: And so one might
argue it belongs to no one.
That would be the best argument.
It belongs to no one.
It belongs to the planet.
>>BAKST: OK.
But who shall we entrust that--
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>BAKST: --responsibility?
>>REGINA: And that's going to
be a debate for-- who knows
how long that debate goes on?
>>BAKST: But we do know that
there is an unbroken tradition,
as I said, going back to--
there was a Jewish temple there
for 420 years.
There was a break of 70 years.
Before that, it was Solomon's
Temple for 410 years.
Before that, King
David purchased it.
OK?
>>REGINA: No.
I get the complexities--
>>BAKST: --going
back to Abraham--
>>REGINA: --of the ownership.
>>BAKST: --OK, and so forth.
All right.
But I just want to emphasize
that this spiritual discussion
here sets up the basis
to understand geopolitics
from a cosmic perspective,
which is a whole--
>>REGINA: That is true.
>>BAKST: --different
game-changer.
>>REGINA: Yes, yes.
>>BAKST: Because the
truth is, geopolitics,
it's no less spiritual
than anything else
because it's cosmic in
its origins of what's
taking place here.
So as I mentioned,
the prophets, in order
to enter into a state
of prophecy, which
is much more about
predicting the future,
it's an altered state
of consciousness.
And it would be, in
very, very loose terms,
it's the Torah-- Jewish
equivalent to satori
and nirvana and enlightenment
and cosmic consciousness
and so forth.
So by aligning
myself, my pineal,
with the temple pineal
at the Foundation Stone,
now what have I got here?
I got the general
and the particular.
I've got the outer
and the inner.
And they are now working
together in union.
Now here, just imagine this.
What if we had hundreds,
thousands of people meditating
on their pineal gland while
simultaneously projecting
themselves astrally or
whatever to that very
same location-- and let's
just assume that this
is the equivalent
of the peniel, Face
of God, pineal gland of
the planet, of humanity--
the power that can be
unleashed for peace?
>>REGINA: And that's really
the point of your work.
>>BAKST: Yes, exactly.
>>REGINA: I mean, that
is why all of this
is being brought to
the table, and you've
put these pieces together.
>>BAKST: Yes.
>>REGINA: It's not that we
all need to start doing DMT--
>>BAKST: No.
>>REGINA: --and having that,
whatever, 15-minute experience
but to have it
organically connected
to something for purpose.
>>BAKST: Yes.
For those that have experienced
DMT or ayahuasca, whatever,
they can use that
experience as a model
to jump-start, to turbo-charge
this mode of global evolution.
Everyone is searching for,
and we're desperate now more
than ever, for some peace,
for some common language,
some commonality.
OK?
There really already
is a common place.
And as I mentioned,
historically,
for better or for
worse, all the horrors--
>>REGINA: The least peaceful
place on the planet.
>>BAKST: Yes.
But that isn't certain-- in
one sense, the last place
we would think to look.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>BAKST: That's
where it's hiding.
>>REGINA: Well,
that's perhaps why
it's the least peaceful
place on the planet
is that very conflict.
>>BAKST: Precisely.
But I would add,
it can be turned
inside out because all
the energy is there,
but it's not being
channeled in focus.
Therefore it manifests
through its own backside--
>>REGINA: Right, right.
>>BAKST: --and thus
causing all of this chaos
and these horrors.
>>REGINA: Right.
It's the lower realms
of consciousness
that are in the quarrel--
>>BAKST: Right.
>>REGINA: --not
the upper realms.
>>BAKST: Right.
And anyone can do this mode
of meditation, which I detail
in my book in more details.
>>REGINA: Can you you talk
about it a little bit, just kind
of give us a little
hint of what it entails?
>>BAKST: Sure.
This is, for example, what I do.
I simply go into
my pineal gland.
I close my eyes.
I locate within my
own head essentially,
the very, very center.
That's one of the unique
qualities of the pineal gland.
It's located right in
the middle of the brain.
I also want to mention
something that's astounding,
and that is the pineal
gland is the only organ
in the brain that is singular.
Every other organ is dual in
nature-- the two hemispheres.
>>REGINA: Right, paired.
>>BAKST: That's bizarre.
Why is that?
OK.
So here--
>>REGINA: That point
of singularity.
>>BAKST: That point singularity.
>>REGINA: That portal.
>>BAKST: OK.
Let's flash back to Garden
of Eden, tree of knowledge,
tree of life.
The tree of knowledge of good
and evil is not good and evil.
It's about the tree of-- when
we say tree, think of dendrite,
think of circuits, think of
networks, internet, of duality.
It's binary.
The tree of life, and
this is very little known,
but this is an
absolute Torah fact.
The tree of life and the tree
of knowledge are the same tree.
The tree of life
is the root of it.
It branches into the
tree of knowledge.
According to this,
the pineal gland
is nothing less than a remnant
of the higher-dimensional tree
of life that still exists
within each one of us.
That's why it is
singular in its nature.
And that's why even though it
says Adam and Eve were expelled
from the Garden, but
in truth it was still
left open [HEBREW SPEECH],
the way, the path,
the tree of life
for those that know
how to get back into it again.
And the way in, according to
the whole scenario that I'm
presenting, is we can go back.
We must go back.
And strangely
enough, the entrance
is right inside
of each one of us.
But specifically, we have to
align it with the collective.
We are a collective.
We talk about all one
family, one humanity.
Well, then why not there be
one singular pineal gland,
peniel, Face of God,
for all humanity,
and thus by doing this,
creating this resonance?
OK, more specifically,
what I do is I simply use
my power of imagination
that I am going in
between the two cherubim.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>BAKST: My Ark of the
Covenant is inside my brain.
And in effect, that's all I
have to do and buckle myself in.
And if I keep the
resonance going,
then the power of
the collective,
the power that is innate in
the geographical pineal gland,
is going to affect and turn
on my personal pineal gland.
And vice versa-- my little
pineal gland, the little me,
I can start having effect on
the collective of humanity.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And if we were so lucky
as to actually employ
the notion of where two or more
gather, where you literally
have people in the same vision,
in the same understanding,
the same intention at the
same time, which almost
never happens, then
I think the power
for healing-- it's profound.
>>BAKST: Yes.
>>REGINA: And you're doing
your part one at a time.
You're teaching
people this concept.
You're teaching them to do
it one person at a time.
And every now and then,
and just recently,
I'll have one of our amazing
viewers write in and say,
why aren't we doing
something together?
A being that I have great
respect for and have
had a lot of guidance
from through my lifetime
has said that is the one thing
that humanity has yet to do.
You gather together, each
one in their own thoughts,
saying they're meditating
for the same thing
with their own taste, their
own vision, their own feeling,
their own distractions.
And it's that
singularity of thought
coming together
perfectly that actually
drives very rapid change.
>>BAKST: Yes.
>>REGINA: And
we're not doing it.
>>BAKST: Yes.
And what is also unique about
this mode of pineal or luz
meditation is anyone can take
their practice-- Buddhist,
Sufi--
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>BAKST: --Christian, all you
do, all we're adding on here
is you enter, you do what
you do inside of your pineal.
And then put your pineal inside
of the geographical pineal,
and now we have a commonality.
We have a common language.
And the circuitry
is already there.
The meridians are there.
They're built into the
structure of our planet
and into our humanity.
And once again, the whole world
has its eye on that space.
The problem is they
have their two eyes.
They need to put their
third eye on that space.
>>REGINA: Oh, absolutely.
>>BAKST: And now we have--
>>REGINA: It's needs to
be lifted into a higher
conversation no doubt.
>>BAKST: We have
now a mechanism.
We have something that who
could disagree, really,
with it in principle?
>>REGINA: Yes.
Well, and we're out of
time, believe it or not.
>>BAKST: Now, I
just quickly add.
I rediscovered from the
Torah, from the Kabbalah,
there's a secret entrance
into the pineal gland,
not through the face,
through the forehead
but through the
back of the head.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>BAKST: That's the occiput--
>>BAKST: --which is the
secret, what the sages refer
to as the luz bone, which
corresponds anatomically
to the atlas, but
it's that whole area.
There's a secret entrance.
That goes back to the
cave and the tunnel that's
covered by the
luz tree, which is
the hair on the
back of the head.
You can go in, walk up the
stairs to the Holy of Holies.
>>REGINA: Et voila, you're home.
>>BAKST: And don't
forget, you've
got male and female there.
So it requires passion, and
it requires love together
with everything else
that we've spoken about.
>>REGINA: Wow.
This has been a really
interesting journey with you.
Thank you.
>>BAKST: Well, it's
been my pleasure.
>>REGINA: And again,
the name of the book.
I have your site here, but
what is the name of the book
you've written?
>>BAKST: Yeah.
The name of the book
is "The Jerusalem Stone
of Consciousness."
>>REGINA: Very good.
>>BAKST: I also
have another book,
which is basically a manual on
how to study the methodology.
It's called "Beyond Kabbalah--"
>>REGINA: OK.
>>BAKST: --"The Teachings
That Cannot be Taught."
>>REGINA: And this is
all on your website--
>>BAKST: Yes.
>>REGINA: --available
through the website?
>>BAKST: That is correct.
>>REGINA: Thank you so much.
I appreciate your time and
putting all these pieces
together.
>>BAKST: Thank you.
>>REGINA: To learn
more about Joel's work,
you can go to
cityofluz-- L-U-Z-- .com.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[THEME MUSIC]